      THE ACCESS TO INFORMATION ACT




              ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

Shon titlc.
                   PART 1. Preliminan,
Objccts of Act.
Intcrprctation.
Publication of information by public authority.
Application of Act.
                  PART 11. Right of..lccess
Right of access.
Application for access.
Trsnsfcr of requests.
Forins of access.
Assistance and dcfcrmcnt of acccss.
Deletion of exempt matter.
Fees. ctc.
Grant of acccss.
                PART 111. Es-eirrpr D o c ~ r t ~ r c ~ t . ~
Documents affecting securiw. defence or international relations.
Cabinet documcnts.
Docunlcilts relating to law enforcement.
Docurt~cntssubicct to legal pri\4cgc. ctc.
Documents affecting national economy.
Docualcnts rc\.caling Go\,ernmcllt's delibcrati\c prwcsscs.
Docunlents relating to business affairs. etc.
Docunlcnts rclating to heritage sites. ctc.
     [The mclusion of this page is authorized by L.N.1 1 1/2005]
32. Docu~ncntsaffecting personill pri\.ac!..

7 3 . ISSIICof ccrtificatc re cse~nptdocumc~lr.

      PART IV. .I I I I ~ I I ~ ~ I I I ~c~lrtl.
                                          I I / I~rirorc~rio~~
                                                          o f l'olvonc~lIiecorriv
21    4ppl icnt 1011 for a rwndn~cntor amlot at ion of pcrsor~alrccords.
25    Alncndnlent of rccords.
20. An~iotationof pcrsonal rccords.

2?.   Notice of a~ncndmcntsor annotations.

28. Transfcr of applications for il111~11dmcut
                                           or alu~otation.

                           PART V. I i e ~ h vnnt1.-lpprd
29. Inlcrprctation.



31    Proccdurc rr inlcrnal rc\,ic\\
32    Appcal.

                         PART VI. ,\ liscc.lla~ieor/.v
33. Protcction from liabilit~ re defaniatior~. brcach of confidcncc or
         copyrigl~t.
34. Offcncc.

35. Provisions re other Acts.
36. Reports.



38. Review of Act by Parliamentary cornrnittce.

      SCHEDULES




            [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
            THE ACCESS TO INFORMATION ACT                                     ~cts
                                                                           21 o f 2002,




  1. This Act may be cited as the Access to Information Act.               Sliwititl~.


                      PART I. l'relin7hary
  2. The objects of this Act are to reinforce and give further o b i ~ c t s o r
effect to certain fundamental principles underlying the system of
constitutional democracy, namely-
     ( a ) governmental accountability;

    ( h ) transparency; and
    ( ) public participation in national decision-making,
by granting to the public a general right of access to ot'ticial
documents held by public authorities, subject to exemptions
which balance that right against the public intcrest in exempting
fiom disclosure governmental, commercial or personal
information of a sensitive nature.

  3. In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires-                   Inlzrprc-
                                                                           tation.
     "appointed day" means the 5th day of January, 2004;
     "document" includes, in addition to a document in
         writing-
              ( a ) any map, plan, graph or drawing;
               @) any photograph;
               (c) any disc, tape, sound track or other device in
                   which sounds or other data (not being visual
                   images) are embodied, whether electronically
                   or othei-wisc, SO as to be capable (with or
                   without the aid of some other equipment) of
                   being reproduced therefrom;
           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
        (4 any film (including microfilm), negative, tape
              or other device in which one or more visual
              images are embodied whether electronically
              or otherwise, so as to be capable (with or
              without the aid of some other equipment) of
              being reproduced therefrom;

"exempt document" means a document which by virtue of
    any provision of Part 111 is exempt from disclosure;

"exempt matter" means any matter the inclusion of which
    in a document causes that part of the document to be
    exempt from disclosure;

L L g ~ ~ e r n mcompany"
                  ent     means a company registered under
     the Companies Act, being a company in which the
     Government or an agency of the Government,
     whether by the holding of shares or by other financial
     input, is in a position to influence the policy of the
     company;

"official document" means a document held by a public
     authority in connection with its functions as such,
     whether or not it was created-

        (cr) by that authority; or

        ( h ) before the 5th day of January, 2004,

    and for the purposes of this Act, a document is held by
    a public authority if it is in its possession, custody or
    control;

"public authority" means-

         (a) a Ministry, department, Executive Agency or
             other agency of Government;
         ( b ) a statutory body or authority;
     [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
             (c) a Parish Council;

             (4 the Council of the Kingston and St. Andrew
                    Corporation;

             ( e ) any Government company which-


                      (i) is wholly owned by the Government or
                          an agency of the Government, or in
                          which the Government holds more than
                          fifty per cent shares; or

                      (ii) is specified in an order under section 5
                           (3);

             V) any other body or organization specified in an
                order under section 5 (3);

    "responsible Ministeryymeans the Minister responsible for
         the public authority which holds an official document.

  4.-41) A public authority shall cause to be published within publication
                                                               o f infor-
twelve months of -                                             mation
                                                                          by public
                                                                          authority.
    (a) the appointed day;
    ( b ) its establishment;
    (c) the coming into operation of an order under section 5
        (1) (a)or (3) which specified that authority; or

     (6) the application of the provisions of this Act to that 242003
                                                               S. 2(c).
         public authority pursuant to section 5 (1) (h),

whichever is later, an initial statement of its organization and
functions containing the information specified in the First First
                                                                 Schedule.
Schedule.

          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/200S]
4.02                                 ACCESS TO INFORMATION

First                 ( 2 ) The provisions of the First Schedule shall apply for
Schedule.
              the purposes of making available to the public the document
              described in that Schedule.

                     (3) The infornlation required under subsection (1) shall
              be published in such manner and shall be updated with such
              frequency as may be prescribed.

                     (4) The Minister may amend the First Schedule by order
              subject to affirmative resolution.


Application
of Act.
                5.--(1)    Subject to subsection (2), this Act applies to-

2.112003           (a) public authorities which are specified by the Minister
S. 3(b).
                          by order within eighteen months after the appointed
                          day; and

2412003            (b) all other public authorities immediately after the
S. 3(b)
                       expiration of the period of eighteen months referred to
                       in paragraph (a);

                   (c) official documents created by or held by a public
                       authority not earlier than thirty years immediately
                       preceding the appointed day.


                      (2) The Minister may, by order subject to negative
              resolution, declare that this Act shall apply to official documents         1


              created by or held by a public authority at such date, being
              earlier than the thirty years referred to in subsection (1) (c), as
              may be specified in that order.

                      (3) The Minister may, by order subject to affirmative
              resolution, declare that this Act shall apply to-
                           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 112005]
                     ACCESS TO INFORMATION


    (a) such government companies, other than those specified
        in paragraph (e) (i) of the definition of "public
        authority", as may be specified in the order;


    (b) any other body or organization which provides services
        of a public nature which are essential to the welfare of
        the Jamaican society,

or to such aspects of their operations as may be specified in the
order.


       (4) An order under subsection (3) may be made subject
to such exceptions, adaptations or modifications, as the Minister
may consider appropriate.


        (5) The Minister may, by order subject to affirmative
resolution, declare that the application of this Act in relation to
any government company specified in paragraph (e) (i) of the
definition of "public authority" shall be subject to such
exceptions, adaptations or modifications as the Minister may
consider appropriate.


       (6) This Act shall not apply to-

    (a) the Governor-General, in relation to the exercise of the
        powers and duties conferred or imposed on him by or
        under the Constitution of Jamaica or under any other
        law;


     (b) the judicial functions of-

                 (i) a court;
           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
                                 ACCESS TO INFORMA TION

                             (ii) the holder of a judicial office or other office
                                  connected with a court;

               (c) the security or intelligence services in relation to their
                   strategic or operational intelligence gathering activities;

               (6) any statutory body or authority as the Minister may
                   specify by order subject to affirmative resolution.

                   (7) This Act applies to official documents held in a
           registry or other office of a court, being documents that relate
           only to matters of an administrative nature.

                    (8) In subsection (6) "security or intelligence services"
           means-

               (a) the Jamaica Constabulary Force;

               ( b ) the Island Special Constabulary Force;
               (c) the Rural Police;
               (6) the Jamaica Defence Force.


                                  PART 11. Right of Access

Right of     6.-(1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, every person
access.
           shall have a right to obtain access to an official document, other
           than an exempt document.

                  (2) The exemption of an official document or part
           thereof from disclosure shall not apply after the document has
           been in existence for twenty years, or such shorter or longer
           period as the Minister may specify by order, subject to
           affirmative resolution.
                       [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1120051
                      ACCESS TO INFORMATION                                7


        (3) An applicant for access to an official document shall
not be required to give any reason for requesting access to that
document.

         (4) Where an official document is-

    (a) open to access by the public pursuant to any other
          enactment, as part of a public register or otherwise; or

    ( b ) available for purchase by the public in accordance with
          administrative procedures established for that purpose,

access to that document shall be obtained in accordance with the
provisions of that enactment or those procedures, as the case
may be.


  7.-(1) A person who wishes to obtain access to an official Application
document shall make an application to the public authority for access.
which holds that document.

         (2) An application under subsection (1)-

     (a) may be made in writing or transmitted by telephone or
           other electronic means;

     (b) shall provide such information concerning the
         document as is reasonably necessary to enable the
         public authority to identify it.

         (3) A public authority to which an application is made
shall-

     (a) upon request, assist the applicant in identifying the
           documents to which the application relates;
            [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 1120051
                                   ACCESS TO INI;OKMA 7'lON

                  ( b ) acknowledge receipt of every application in the
                        prescribed manner;
                  (c) grant to the applicant, access to the document specified
                      in the application if it is not an exempt document.
                      (4) A public authority shall respond to an application as
              soon as practicable but not later than-
                  ( a ) thirty days after the date of receipt of the application;
                        or
                  ( b ) in the case of an application transferred to it by another
                        authority pursuant to section 8, thirty days after the
                        date of the receipt by that authority,
              so, however, that an authority may extend the period of thirty
              days for a hrther period, not exceeding thirty days, in any case
              where there is reasonable cause for such extension.
                      (5) The response of the public authority shall state its
              decision on the application, and where the authority or body
              decides to rehse or defer access or to extend the period of thirty
              days, it shall state the reasons therefor, and the options available
              to an aggrieved applicant.
Transfer of     8.-(1) Where an application is made to a public authority for
requests.
              an official document-
                  ( a ) which is held by another public authority; or
                  ( b ) the subject matter of which is more closely connected
                        with the hnctions of another public authority,
              the first mentioned public authority shall transfer the application
              or such part of it as may be appropriate to that other public
              authority and shall inform the applicant immediately of the
              transfer.
                       (2) A transfer of an application pursuant to subsection
              ( 1 ) shall be made as soon as practicable but not later than
              fourteen days after the date of receipt of the application.
      of
F O ~ W         9,-(1) Access to an official document may be granted to an
access.
              applicant in one or more of the following forms-
                         [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
                    ACCESS TO INFORMA TION


         the applicant may be afforded a reasonable opportunity
         to inspect the document;
         the authority concerned may furnish the applicant with
         a copy of the document;
         in the case of a document from which sounds or visual
         images are capable of being reproduced, arrangements
         may be made for the applicant to hear the sounds or
         view the visual images;
         in the case of a document by which or in which words
         are-

               (i) recorded in a manner in which they are
                   capable of being reproduced in the form of
                   sound and images; or

              (ii) contained in the form of shorthand writing
                   or in codified form,
the applicant may be furnished with a transcript of the data or
the words, sounds and images recorded or contained in that
document.
       (2) Subject to subsection (3), where an applicant
requests that access be given in a particular form, access shall be
given in that form.
       (3) A public authority may grant access in a form other
than that requested by an applicant where the grant of access in
the form requested would-
    (a) be detrimental to the preservation of the document, or
        be inappropriate, having regard to its physical state;
    (b) constitute an infringement of copyright subsisting in
        any matter contained in the document.

       (4) Copies of documents to which access is granted shall
be authenticated in the prescribed manner.
          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 ll2005)
10                                  ACCESS TO INFORMA TION

Assistanceand    10.-(1) Where the information provided by the applicant in
deferment of
xC~SS.        relation to the document is not such as is reasonably necessary
                to enable the public authority to identify it, the authority shall
                afford the applicant a reasonable opportunity to consult with the
                authority with a view to reformulating the application so that the
                document can be identified.
                        (2) A public authority may defer the grant of access to
                an official document-
                    (a) if publication of the document within a particular
                          period is required under the provisions of any
                          enactment, until the expiration of that period;
                    (b) if the document was prepared for presentation to
                        Parliament or for the purpose of being made available
                        to a particular person or body, until the expiration of a
                        reasonable period after its preparation for it to be so
                        presented or made available to the person or body;
                    (c) if the premature release of the document would be
                        contrary to the public interest, until the occurrence of
                        any event after which or the expiration of any period
                        beyond which, the release of the document would not
                        be contrary to the public interest.
                       (3) Where a public authority decides to defer access in
                accordance with subsection (2), it shall, within fourteen days of
                its decision, inform the applicant of that decision and shall,
                where possible, indicate to him the period during which the
                deferment will operate.

Delet~onof        11.-(1) Where an application is made to a public authority
ewmpr IuJtter
                for access to an official document which contains exempt
                matter, the authority shall grant access to a copy of the
                document with the exempt matter deleted therefrom.

                        (2) A public authority which grants access to a copy of
                an official document in accordance with this section shall inform
                the applicant-
                          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
                    ACCESS TO INFORMA TION                                              11


     (u) that it is such a copy; and
     ( h ) of the statutory provision by virtue of which such
           deleted matter is exempt matter.
   12.-(1) The cost of reproducing any documents containing Fccs,clc.
information in relation to which an application is made under
this Act shall be borne by the applicant.
         (2) The responsible Minister may waive, reduce or
remit, the cost specified in subsection (1) for access to an
official document where he is satisfied that such waiver,
reduction or remission is justifiable.
                                                                           Grant ol
  13. Subject to this Act, where-                                          BCCCSS.


     (u) an application is made in accordance with section 7 for
         access to an official document; and
     (b) the cost incurred by the public authority in granting
         access has been paid,
access to the document shall be granted in accordance with this
Act.
                  PART 111. Exempt Document
  14. Official documents are exempt from disclosure if-                    I>ocumcnts
                                                                           affccling
    (a) the disclosure thereof would prejudice the security, security,
                                                             dcfcncc or
        defence or international relations of Jamaica;       international
                                                                           rclations.
    (b) those documents contain information communicated in
        confidence to the Government by or on behalf of a
        foreign government or by an international organization.
   15.-(1) An official document is exempt from disclosure if it Cabinct
                                                                documcnts.
is a Cabinet document, that is to say-
    (a) it is a Cabinet Submission, Cabinet Note or other
        document created for the purpose of submission to the
        Cabinet for its consideration and it has been or is
        intended to be submitted ;
    (b) it is a Cabinet Decision, or other official record of any
        deliberation of the Cabinet.
          [Thc inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1120051
                                       ACCESS TO INFORMATION

                         (2) Subsection (1) does not apply to-
                      (a) any document appended to a Cabinet document that
                          contains material of a purely factual nature or reports,
                          studies, tests or surveys of a scientific or technical
                          nature; or
                      (b) a document by which a decision of the Cabinet has
                          been officially published.
Documenls            16. Official documents relating to law enforcement are
relating lo law
enforcemenl.
                   exempt from disclosure if their disclosure would, or could
                   reasonably be expected to-
                       (u) endanger any person's life or safety;
                       (b) prejudice-
                             (i)  the conduct of an investigation of a breach or
                                  possible breach of the law; or
                             (ii) the fair trial of any person or the impartial
                                  adjudication of a particular case;
                       (c) disclose, or enable a person to ascertain, the existence
                           or identity of a confidential source of information, in
                           relation to law enforcement;
                       (d) reveal lawful methods or procedures for preventing,
                           detecting, investigating or dealing with matters arising
                           out of breaches or evasions of the law, where such
                           revelation would, or could be reasonably likely to,
                           prejudice the effectiveness of those method or
                           procedures;
                       ( e ) facilitate the escape of a person from lawful detention;
                             or
                       u> jeopardize the security of any correctional facilities.
Documents            17. An official document is exempt from disclosure if-
subject to
legal privileyz,       (a) it would be privileged from production in legal
etc.
                           proceedings on the ground of legal professional
                           privilege; or
                             [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 112005]
                     ACCESS TO INFORMA TION                                        13


    (b) the disclosure thereof would-

           (i) constitute an actionable breach of confidence;
           (ii) be in contempt of court; or
           (iii) infringe the privileges of Parliament.
  18.-(1) An official document of a type specified in Documents
subsection (2) is exempt from disclosure if its disclosure or, as
the case may be, its premature disclosure would, or could economy.
reasonably be expected to, have a substantial adverse effect on
the Jamaican economy, or the Government's ability to manage
the Jamaican economy.
        (2) The types of documents referred to in subsection (1)
include but are not limited to, documents relating to taxes, duties
or rates, interest rates, monetary policy and exchange rate policy
or currency or exchange rates.
  19.-(1) Subject to subsection (3), an official document is Documents
                                                             revealing
exempt from disclosure if it contains-                       Government's
                                                                         deliberative
    (a) opinions, advice or recommendations prepared for;                ,c,,,

    (b) a record of consultations or deliberations arising in the
        course of proceedings of the Cabinet or of a committee
        thereof.
        (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply to documents which
contain material of a purely factual nature or reports, studies,
tests or surveys of a scientific or technical nature.
        (3) A public authority shall grant access to a document
referred to in subsection (1) if it is satisfied, having regard to all
the circumstances, that the disclosure thereof would, on balance,
be in the public interest.
  20.-(1) Subject to subsection (2), an official document is Documents
                                                             relating to
exempt from disclosure if-                                   busmess
                                                                         affairs, etc.
     (a) its disclosure would reveal-
           (i) trade secrets;
           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 111/2005]
                                      ACCESS TO INFORMA TION


                            (ii) any other information of a commercial value,
                                 which value would be, or could reasonably be
                                 expected to be, destroyed or diminished if the
                                 information were disclosed;
                     (b) it contains inforn~ation(other than that referred to in
                         paragraph (u)) concerning the commercial interests of
                         any person or organization (including a public
                         authority) and the disclosure of that information would
                         prejudice those interests.

                         (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply where the applicant for
                 access is the person or organization referred to in that subsection
                 or a person acting on behalf of that person or organization.

Documents          21.-(1)    Subject to subsection (2), an official document is
relat~ngto
her~tagesltes.
                 exempt from disclosure if its disclosure would, or could
etc              reasonably be expected to result in the destruction of, damage to,
                 or interference with, the conservation of-

                     (a) any historical,          archaeological         or    anthropological
                         resources;
                     (b) anything declared to be a national monument,
                         designated as protected national heritage or protected
                         by a preservation notice under the Jamaica National
                         Heritage Trust Act;
                     (c) any species of plant or animal life so designated or
                         which is endangered, threatened or otherwise
                         vulnerable;
                     (d) any other rare or endangered living resource.

                         (2) A public authority shall grant access to a document
                 referred to in subsection (1) if it is satisfied, having regard to all
                 the circumstances, that the disclosure thereof would, on balance,
                 be in the public interest.
                                           -


                            [The inclus~on of this page is authorized by L.N. 111/2005]
                        A CCESS TO INFORMA TZON                                       15


  22.-(1) Subject to the provisions of this section, a public
authority shall not grant access to an official document if it pers,,,,~
would involve the unreasonable disclosure of information pn'acy
relating to the personal affairs of any person, whether living or
dead.

       (2) Subsection (1) shall not apply in any case where the
application for access is made by the person to whose affairs the
document relates.

  23.-(     1 ) Where-                                                      Issue of

    (a) the Prime Minister is satisfied that an application for
        access relates to a document specified in section 15 (1);
                                                                            z;:knt,
                                                                            certificate re




     (b) a responsible Minister is satisfied that an application
            for access relates to an official document to which
            section 14, 16 or 18, as the case may be, applies,
the Prime Minister or the responsible Minister, as the case may
require, may issue a certificate to the effect that the document is
an exempt document and shall specify the basis of the
exemption.
        (2) Where the Prime Minister or a responsible Minister,
as the case may be, is satisfied as mentioned in subsection ( I ) by
virtue of anything contained in any particular part or parts of an
official document, a certificate issued under that subsection in
respect of that document shall identify that part or those parts of
the document by reason of which the certificate is issued.
      (3) A certificate issued under subsection (1) shall be
conclusive that the document is exempt.

 PART N. Amendment and Annotation of Personal Records
  24.-(1) Where a person claims that an official document Application
                                                          for qmend-
contains personal information about the person that-      mentor
                                                                            annotation o f
          (a) is incomplete, incorrect, out of date or misleading; pe,o,a,
              and                                                  records.

              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 111/2005]
                                  A CCESS TO INFORMA TION


                    (b) has been used, is being used or is available for use by
                        a public authority for administrative purposes,
              the person may apply to the public authority for an amendment
              or an annotation, as the case may be, of that document.
                     (2) An application under this section shall be in writing
              and shall specify as far as practicable, the document claimed to
              be the personal record requiring amendment or annotation, as
              the case may be, and shall-
                    (a) in the case of an application for amendmentypecify-
                            (i) whether information in the record is claimed
                                  to be incomplete, incorrect, out of date or
                                  misleading and the information in respect of
                                  which that claim is made;
                           (ii) the applicant's basis for making that claim;
                                  and
                           (iii) the nature of the amendment required by the
                                  applicant;
                    (b) in the case of an application for annotation, be
                        accompanied by a statement specifying-
                           (i) the matters referred to in paragraph ( a ) (i) and
                                 (ii); and
                           (ii) the information that would make the record
                                 complete, correct, up to date and not mis-
                                 leading.
Amendment        25.-(1) Where, in relation to any application under section
of records.
              24, a public authority is satisfied as to the truth of the matters
              stated in the application, it shall amend the document concerned
              in the prescribed manner.
                      (2) Where a public authority decides not to amend an
              official document it shall-
                    (a) take such steps as are reasonable to enable the
                        applicant to provide a statement of the kind referred
                        to in section 24 (2) (b); and
                        [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 112005]
                    ACCESS TO INFORMA TION                                           17


     (b) annotate the document by adding thereto the state-
         ment referred to in paragraph (a).
  26. Where, in relation to an application for annotation of an Annotation
official document containing personal information, the public ~ ~ ~ ~ s O n a '
authority-
     (a) is satisfied as to the truth of the matters specified in
         that application, the authority shall annotate the
         document in the prescribed manner;
     (b) is not so satisfied, it may refuse to annotate the
         document.
  27. A public authority which amends or annotates an official Noticeof
document pursuant to section 25 or 26, or, as the case may be, ~~~~~~~"
decides not to do so, shall take reasonable steps to inform-   tions.

     (a) the applicant; and
      (b) any other public authority which it is satisfied has
           made prior use of the document,
of the nature of the amendment or annotation or, as the case may
require, of the decision and the reasons for that decision.

  28. The provisions of section 8 shall apply, with such Transferof
modifications as may be necessary, to applications for appP"ca'iOn"
                                                         for amend-
amendments or annotations of personal records.           ment or
                                                                          annotatlon.
                  PART V. Review and Appeal
  29. In this Part and Part VI "relevant decision" means a ~nterpre-
decision referred to in section 30 (1) or (2), as the case may
require.
                                                                          Internal
  30.-(1) An applicant for access to an official document may, R,iew,
in accordance with subsection (4), apply for an internal review
of a decision by a public authority to-
      (a) refuse to grant access to the document;
      (b) grant access only to some of the documents specified
          in an application;
          [The inclusion of this page i s authorized by L.N. 11 1/2005]
                                      ACCESS TO INFORMATION


                     (c) defer the grant of access to the document;
                     (d) charge a fee for action taken or as to the amount of
                         the fee.
                       (2) An applicant for amendment or annotation of a
               personal record may, in accordance with subsection (4), apply
               for a review of a decision by a public authority to refuse to make
               that amendment or annotation.
                       (3) For the purposes of subsections (1) and (2), a failure
               to give a decision on any of the matters referred to in subsection
               (1) (a) to (c) or to amend or annotate a personal record within
               the time required by this Act shall be regarded as a refusal to do
               SO.

                      (4) An application under subsection (1) or (2) may only
               be made where the decision to which the application relates was
               taken by a person other than the responsible Minister, a
               Permanent Secretary or the principal officer of the public
               authority concerned.

Procedure re     3 1.-(I)    An internal review shall be conducted-
internal
review.

                      (a) by the responsible Minister in relation to documents
                          referred to in sections 14, 15, 16 and 18;
                      (b) in any other case, by the Permanent Secretary in the
                          relevant Ministry or the principal officer of the public
                          authority whose decision is subject to review.

                       (2) An application for internal review shall be made-

                      (a) within thirty days after the date of a notification (in
                          this subsection referred to as the initial period) to the
                          applicant of the relevant decision, or within such
                          further period, not exceeding thirty days, as the public
                          authority may permit; or
                            [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 1/2005]
                      A CCESS TO INFORMA TION


     ( b ) where no such notification has been given, within
           thirty days after the expiration of the period allowed
           for the giving of the decision or of any other period
           permitted by the authority.

       ( 3 ) A person who conducts an internal review-
      (a) may take any decision in relation to the application
          which could have been taken on an original
          application;
      (b) shall take that decision within a period of thirty days
          after the date of receipt of the application.

  32.-(1) An appeal shall lie pursuant to subsections ( 2 ) and Appeal.
(3), to the Tribunal established for that purpose, constituted in
accordance with the Second Schedule.                              Second
                                                                                  Schedule.

       ( 2 ) A person may lodge an appeal-
      ( a ) where internal         review       under       section     30   is
            applicable-
                (i)   against a decision taken on such
                      review;
                 (ii) if the time specified in section 3 1 ( 2 ) ( b )
                      has expired without the applicant being
                      notified of a decision;
      (b) in any other case, against a relevant decision in
          relation to any of the matters referred to in paragraphs
          ( a ) to (c) of section 30 ( 1 ) or section 30 ( 2 ) , and
          accordingly section 30 ( 3 ) shall apply with necessary
          modificatians to an appeal under this paragraph.
       ( 3 ) An appeal shall be made-
      ( a ) by the lodgement of a document within sixty days
            after the date of the notification to the appellant of the
            relevant decision or of the decision taken on an
            internal review; or
          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 111/2005]
                 ( h ) where no notification has been given within the
                       period required by this Act, within sixty days after the
                       expiration of that period.
                   (4) Where an appeal is not made within the period
           specified in subsection (2),the Appeal Tribunal may extend that
           period if it is satisfied that the appellant's delay in so doing is
           not unreasonable.
                   (5) On the hearing of an appeal, the onus of proving that
           the relevant decision was justified or that a decision adverse to
           the appellant should be made by the Appeal Tribunal, shall lie
           on the public authority which made the relevant decision.
                   (6) On hearing an appeal, the Appeal Tribunal-
                  ( a ) may subject to paragraph (h), make any decision
                        which could have been made on the original
                        application;
                  (h) shall not nullify a certificate issued under section 23.
                   (7) The Appeal Tribunal may call for and inspect an
           exempt document, so, however, that, where it does so, it shall
           take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the document is
           inspected only by members of staff of the Appeal Tribunal
           acting in that capacity.
                                 PART VI. MisceI1aueou.s
Proled ion       33.-(1) Nothing in this Act shall be construed as authorizing
from liability
re dofa~na-
               the disclosure of any official document-
tion, breach "
of contidonce        ( a ) containing any defamatory matter; or
or copyright.
                  ( b ) the disclosure of which would be in breach of
                        confidence or of copyright.

                      ( 2 ) Where access to a document referred to in subsection
            ( 1 ) is granted in the hona.fide belief that the grant of such access
            is required by this Act, no action for defamation, breach of
            confidence or breach of copyright shall lie against-
                       [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 1120051
                    ACCESS TO INFORMA TION

          the Government or any public authority, any Minister
          or any public officer involved in the grant of such
          access, by reason of the grant of access or of any
          republication of that document; or
          the author of the document or any other person who
          supplied the document to the Government or the
          public authority, in respect of the publication
          involved in or resulting from the grant of access, by
          reason of having so suppiied the document.
       (3) The grant of access to an official document in
accordance with this Act shall not be construed as authorization
or approval-
      (a) for the purpose of the law relating to defamation or
          breach of confidence, of the publication of the
           document or its contents by the person to whom
           access is granted;
      (b) for the purposes of the Copyright Act, of the doing by
           that person of any act comprised within the copyright
           in any work contained in the document, as follows-
                     (i)  any literary, dramatic, musical or
                          artistic work;
                    (ii) any sound recording, cinematograph
                          film, television broadcast or sound
                          broadcast; or
                    (iii) a published edition of a literary,
                          dramatic, musical or artistic work.
  34.-(1) A person commits an offence, if in relation to an offence
official document to which a right of access is conferred under
this Act he-
      (a) alters or defaces;
      (b) blocks or erases;
      (c) destroys; or
      (6) conceals,
the document with the intention of preventing its disclosure.
          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 11 1/2005]
                                    ACCESS TO INFORMATION

                         (2) A person who commits an offence under subsection
               ( I ) is liable on summary conviction in a Resident Magistrate's
               Court to a fine not exceeding five hundred thousand dollars or to
               imprisonment for a term not exceeding six months or to both
               such fine and imprisonment.
Provisionsre     35.-(1) Where access to an official document is granted in
other Acts.
               accordance with this Act, the person who authorizes such access
               and any other person concerned in the granting thereof shall not,
               by reason only of so doing, be guilty of a criminal offence.
                       (2) Subject to subsection (3), nothing in this Act shall
               affect the provisions of any other Act other than the Official
               Secrets Act, relating to the non-disclosure of information.

                       (3) For the avoidance of any doubt, it is hereby declared
               that the Official Secrets Act shall apply in relation to the grant of
               access to an official document in contravention of this Act.
Reports.         36.-(1) The Minister shall, as soon as practicable after the
               end of each year (but not later than the 30th of June in the
               following year) prepare a report of the operation of this Act
               during the year, containing the matters specified in subsection
               (4).
                       (2) The report referred to in subsection (1) shall be laid
               on the Table of the House of Representatives and of the Senate.
                      (3) Each public authority shall submit to the Minister,
               quarterly reports on the matters specified in subsection (4).

                       (4) The matters referred to in subsections (I) and (3)
               are-
                      (a) the number of applications for access received,
                          granted, deferred, refused or granted, subject to
                          deletions;
                      (b) the categories of exemptions claimed and the
                          numbers of each category;
                      (c) the number of applications received for-
                          [The inclusion of this page is author~zedby L.N. 1 1 112005]
                    ACCESS TO INFORM4 TION                                23


                    (i)    amendment of personal records;
                (ii) annotation of personal records;
     (6) the number of-
                    (i)
                      applications for internal review of
                      relevant decisions;
                 (ii) appeals against relevant decisions, and
                      the rate of success or failure thereoc
     (e) such other matters as are considered relevant.

  37. The Minister may make regulations generally for giving Regulations.
effect to the provisions and purposes of this Act and such
regulations shall be subject to afirmative resolution.
  38.-(1) This Act shall be reviewed from time to time by a Reviewof
committee of both Houses of Parliament appointed for that Act    by
                                                            ,,iamentary
purpose.                                                    committee.

       (2) The first such review shall be conducted not later
than two years after the appointed day.




          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
                        ACCESS TO INFORMATmN

                           FIRST SCHEDULE                                  (Section 4)

            Information to be published by Public Authorities
1. The information referred to in section 4 of this Act is-
         a description of the subject area of the public authority;
         a list of the departments and agencies of the public authority
         and-
                (i)      subjects handled by each department and agency;
                (ii)     the locations of departments and agencies;
                (iii)    opening hours of the offices of the authority and
                         its departments and agencies;
         the title and business address of the principal officer;
         a statement of the documents specified in sub-paragraph (e) being
         documents that are provided by the public authority for the use of,
         or which are used by the authority or its officers in making
         decisions or recommendations, under or for the purposes of an
         enactment or scheme administered by the authority, with respect
         to rights, privileges or benefits, or to obligations, penalties or other
         detriments, to or for which persons are or may be entitled or
         subject;
         the documents referred to in sub-paragraph ( 4 are-
                 (i) manuals or other documents containing interpreta-
                     tions, rules, guidelines, practices or precedents;

                 (ii) documents containing particulars of a scheme referred
                      to in paragraph (d), not being particulars contained in
                      an enactment or published under this Act.

2. The principal officer of the authority shall-
   (a)   cause copies of such of the documents specified in paragraph 1 (e)
         as are in use from time to time to be made available for inspection
         and for purchase by members of the public;

   (6)   within twelve months after the publication of the statement under
         paragraph 1 (d) and thereafter at intervals of not more than twelve
         months, cause to be published in the Gazette, statements bringing
         up to date information contained in the previous statement or
         statements.
           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 112005]
   3. The principal officer is not required to comply fully with para-
graph 2 (a) beforc the cspiration of t w c l ~ ~months
                                                 c     aftcr thc appointed day.
but shall. bcfore that tiinc. comply with that paragraph so far as is practicablc.
   4. This Schedule docs not rcquire a document of the kind spccificd in
paragraph 1 ( c ) containing csempt matter. to be nladc a~railablein accordance
with paragraph 2. but, if such a docurircnt is not so m d c available. lllc
principal officer shall. unless impracticable or unreasonable to do so. causc to
bc preparcd a corresponding documcnt. altcred only to the extent neccssary to
cscludc thc cxcmpt mattcr. and causc thc documcnt so prcparcd lo bc dcalt
with in accordancc with pardgraph 2.
   5. Paragraphs 2 and 3 apply in rclation to a public authority-                     2~.2003
                                                                                      S. 4.
       (a) that comes into csistcnce after the appointcd day:
       (h) which is spccificd in an ordcr undcr section 5 (1) (a) or (3) of thc
            Act: or
       (c) to which section 5 (1) (h) ofthc Act applics.
as if thc rcfcrcnccs in paragraph 3 to thc appointcd day wcrc rckrcnccs to thc
day on which t l ~ cauthority corncs into cxistcncc or thc datc on wl~ichthc
order rcferrcd to in subparagraph ( h ) takcs effcct or the date on which the
provisions of section 5 (1) (h) of thc Act takc cffect in rclation to the
authority. as thc casc may bc.
                            SECOND SCHEDULE                            (Scction 32)
                      (hn.vti/ulion c?f /Ippenl 7iihunal
  1. The Tribunal shall, subject to paragraph 2: consist of fivc mcn~bcrs constitution
appointcd by thc Govcmor-Gcncral aftcr consultation with thc Primc ofl'rihunal.
Ministcr and thc Lcadcr of thc Opposition.
   2. For thc hcaring of any appcal undcr this Act the Tribunal inay consist          Power O ~ U W
of one mcmbcr sitting alonc if thc partics to thc appcal agrcc.                       ~neniherto sit
                                                                                      alunc
  3. The membcrs of thc Tribunal shall. subjcct to the provisions of this             Tenure of
Schedule. hold oflice for a period of fivc years and shall bc cligible for re-
appointmcnt.
  4. The Governor-General. shall appoint one of the mcmbers of thc                    Chairnlatl
Tribunal appointcd under paragraph I to be chairman thcrcof.
   5. The Governor-General. after consultation with thc Prime Minister and Acttng
the Leader of the Opposition. may appoint any person to act in the place of appointments.
the chairman or any othcr member of the Tribunal in the casc of thc abscncc
or inability to act of thc chairman or other membcr.
   (,.-(I) Any mcmbcr of the Tribunal othcr than thc chairman inay at any Resignation.
time resign his office by instrument in writing addressed to thc Governor-

              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 111/2005]
26                                     ACCESS TO INFORMATION

                 General and transmitted through the chairman, and from the date of the
                 receipt by the Governor-General of such instrument that member shall cease
                 to be a member of the Tribunal.
                         ( 2 ) The chairman may at any time resign his office by instrument in
                 writing addressed to the Governor-General and such resignation shall take
                 effect as from the date of receipt by the Governor-General of that instrument.
Revocation of       7. The Governor-General, after consultation with the Prime Minister and
appointment.     the Leader of the Opposition may terminate the appointment of any member
                 of the Tribunal who-
                      ( a ) becomes of unsound mind or becomes permanently unable to
                            perform his functions by reason of ill health;
                      (6) becomes bankrupt or compounds with or suspends payments to his
                          creditors;
                      (c)   is convicted and sentenced to a term of imprisonment or to death;
                      (4 is convicted of any offence involving dishonesty;
                      ( e ) fails to carry out the functions conferred or imposed on him by
                            this Act.
F~llingof           8. If any vacancy occurs in the membership of the Tribunal such vacancy
vacancies        shall be filled by the appointment of another member.

Publication of     9. The names of all members of the Tribunal as first constituted and every
membership.      change in the membership thereof shall be published in the Gazette.

Remuneration        10. There shall be paid to the chairman and other members of the
of members.      Tribunal, in respect of each appeal, such remuneration, whether by way of
                 honorarium, salary or fees, and such allowances as may be determined by the
                 Minister responsible for the public service.
Voting.            11. Subject to paragraph 2, the decision of the Tribunal shall be by a
                 majority of votes of the members, and in addition to an original vote, the
                 chairman shall have a casting vote in any case in which the voting is equal.

Power to           12. Subject to the provisions of the Act, the Tribunal shall regulate its
regulate own     own proceedings.
proceedings.

Office of          13. The office of chairman or member of the Tribunal shall not be a
chairman or      public office for the purposes of Chapter V of the Constitution of Jamaica.
member of
Tribunal not
public ofice.
                             [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 1 1/2005]
