                     ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS




        THE ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS ACT


                     ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS

 1. Short title.
                               PART 1. Preli~ninary
2. Interpretation.
3. Objects.
4. Exclusions.
 5. Agreement required.

               PART 11. Application of legal reqz~irernentsto
                             eleclronic transactions

 6. Validity of electronic transactions.
 7. Requirements to give information in writing.
 8. Requirements for signature.
9. Requirements for attestation, etc., of documents.
10. Requirements to produce a document for inspection or in original
      form.
I 1 . Requirements for keeping information.
12. Admissibility and evidential weight of information in electronic form.
13. Information required to be served or delivered.
14. Electronic alternative to prescribed forms.
15. Electronic payment.
16. Formation and validity of contracts.
          General provisions relating to electronic transactions

17. Attribution of electronic documents.

18. Effect of change or error.
19. Acl<nowledgment of receipt of electronic document.

20. Time and place of dispatch and receipt of glectronic documents.


               [The inclusion of this page is authorized by   L.N. IIRO10 I
                     ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

           PART 111. Conduct ofparlies in relation to electronic
                        co17tmunicationsand signatures
2 1. Conduct of relying party.
22. Conduct of signatory.
23. Conduct of certification service provider.
24. Use and disclosure of pseudonyms.
2 5 . Liability of intermediaries

       PART IV. Obligations in relation to electronic transactions
             for the supply ofgoods, services or.fnci2itie.s
26. Interpretation and application of Part IV.
27. Obligations of supplier in the conduct of electronic transactions.
28. Cooling-off period.
29. Unsolicited commercial communications.
30. Supply of goods, services or facilities pursuant to transactions
      conducted electronically.
3 1. Provisions of this Part not excluded by agreement.
32. Complaints to Consumer Affairs Commission.
                        PART V . The Certrfiing Authorily
33. Certifying Authority.
                                  PARTV1. General
34. Penalties.
35. Offences by bodies corporate.
36. Act binds Crown.
37. Regulations.
38. Minister may by order amend penalty or Schedules.
     SCHEDULES




                 [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llL!OlO 1
               ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

  "encrypted signature creation device" means unique data,
      including codes or private cryptographic keys, or a
      uniquely configured physical device, used by a
      signatory in creating an encrypted signature;
  "information" includes data, text, images, sounds, codes,
       computer programmes, software and databases;
  "information technology requirements" includes software
       requirements;
  "originator" in relation to an electronic document, means a
       person by whom, or on whose behalf, the document
       purports to have been sent or generated prior to
       storage, but does not include a person acting as an
       intermediary with respect to that document;
  "signatory" means a person who by means of an encrypted
       signature creation device has (whether acting himself
       or through another person, or an automated com-
       munications device, acting on his behalf) affixed his
       encrypted signature to an electronic document;
   "traffic data" means information about the communication
        of data using an electronic communications system,
        including the-
             (a) number and kind of communications;
             (b) origin of the communication;
             (c) destination of the communication;
             (6)time when the communication was sent; and
             (e) time when the communication was received.
3.-41) The objects of this Act are to-                                 Objects

  (a) facilitate electronic transactions by means of reliable
      electronic documents;
  ( b ) promote the development of the legal and business
        infrastructure necessary to implement secure elec-
        tronic commerce;



          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. lI/2010)
                                ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                   (c) eliminate barriers to electronic commerce resulting
                         from uncertainties over writing and signature require-
                         ments;
                    (6) promote public confidence in the integrity and
                         reliability of electronic documents and electronic
                         transactions, in particular through the use of encrypted
                         signatures to ensure the authenticity and integrity of
                         electronic documents;
                    (e) establish uniformity of legal rules and standards
                         regarding the authentication and integrity of electronic
                         documents;
                    fl facilitate electronic filing of information with Govern-
                         ment agencies and staiutory bodies and to promote
                         efficient delivery of Govermnent services by means of
                         reliable electronic documents.
                      (2) This Act shall be construed in accordance with the
              objects set out in subsection (I), taking into account what is
              commercially reasonable in each case.
Exclusions.      4. The provisions of this Act shall not apply to the trans-
First         actions set out in the First Schedule, to the extent specified in
Sc"edu'e.     the First Schedule.
Agreement        5.-(1) Except as provided in Part IV, nothing in this Act
required.
              shall be construed as imposing an obligation on any person to
              create, give, store or receive any information electronically.
                       (2) This Act applies to any transaction between parties
              each of whom has agreed to conduct the transaction
              electronically.
                        (3) The fact as to whether or not a party agrees to
              conduct a transaction electronically shall be determined-
                     ( a ) where the party is the Government, by express
                           stipulation of the Government;
                     (b) in the case of any other party, by the context and
                           surrounding circumstances including the party's
                           conduct.



                            [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. lli2OlO I
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

        (4) A party that agrees to conduct a particular trans-
action electronically may refuse to conduct other transactions
electronically.
        ( 5 ) Except as otherwise provided hereunder, as between
the parties to a transaction conducted electronically, any
provision of Part I1 or Part I11 may be varied by agreement.
          PART11. Application oflegal requirements to
                   electronic transactions
   6. For the purposes of any law, information shall not Validityof
                                                         electronic
be invalid or inadmissible solely on the ground that the transactions,
information-
     (a) is created, stored or communicated electronically; or
     (b) is referred to but is not contained in an electronic
         document, if the information being referred to is
         known to and accepted by the party against whom it is
         relied upon.
   7.-(1)    Where any law requires, or refers to, the giving of Require-
                                                                 ~iientsto
information in writing, information that is given electronically rive
shall be taken to be given in writing if-                        infornintion
                                                                            in writing.
                                                                                     -
      (a) when the information was given, it was reasonable to
          expect that the information would be readily
          accessible to, and capable of retention for subsequent
          reference by, the addressee;
      (b) where the information is to be given to the Govern-
          ment and the Government requires-
                (i) that the information be given in a particular
                    way in accordance with particular tech-
                    nology requirements; or
               (ii) that particular action be taken to verify the
                    receipt of the information,
           the Government's requirement has been met; and
      (c) where the information is to be given to a person other


              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. I IROlO I
                                    ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                           than the Government, that person consents to the
                           information being given electronically.
                        (2) This section applies to a requirement or permission to
                 give information, whether or not any of the words "give",
                 "send", "serve", or any other word, is used to designate the
                 requirement or permission.
                        (3) For the purposes of this section, ''the giving of in-
                 formation" includes-
                      (a) making an application;
                      (b) making or lodging a claim;
                      (c) serving a notice;
                      (6) lodging a return;
                      ( e ) malting a request;
                      V) making a declaration;
                      ( g ) lodging or issuing a certificate;
                      (h) lodging an objection;
                      (i) giving a statement of reasons.
                         (4) Where a law referred to in subsection (1) requires
                 more than one copy of the information to be submitted to a
                 person, that requirement shall be taken to have been satisfied by
                 giving the information to the person electronically in accordance
                 with the provisions of this section.
Requirements        8.-(1) A law requiring a person's signature in relation to
for signature.
                 any information shall be taken to have been met where the
                 information is given electronically and-
                        (a) a method is used to identify the person and to show
                            the person's approval of the information given;
                       (b) having regard to all the relevant circumstances when
                           that method was used, including any relevant
                           agreement, the method was as reliable as was
                           appropriate for the purposes for which the information
                           was communicated;

                               [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llnOlO I
                  ELECTROhrIC TRANSACTIONS

     ( c ) if the signature is required to be given to the Govern-
           ment and the Government requires that the method
           used be in accordance with particular information
           technology requirements, the Government's require-
           ment has been met; and
     (6) if the signature is required to be given to a person
          other than the Government, that person consents to
          that requirement being met by using the method
          mentioned in paragraph (a).
       ( 2 ) Subject to subsection (3), an encrypted signature
shall be presumed to have satisfied the requirements of
subsection ( 1 ) (a) and (b) if that signature is-
     (a) uniquely linked to the person whose signature is
         required;
     (b) capable of identifying that person;
     ( c ) created by using means that such person can maintain
           under his sole control; and
     (4 linked to the information to which it relates in such a
          manner that any subsequent alteration of the
          information is revealed.
      (3) Subsection (2) shall not be construed as limiting in
any way the ability of any person to-
     (a) establish in any other manner, for the purpose of
         satisfying the requirement referred to in subsection
         (I), the reliability of an encrypted signature or other
         method of indicating identity and approval;
     (b) adduce evidence of the unreliability of an encrypted
         signature.
       (4) Subsection ( 1 ) applies whether the requirement for a
signature is in the form of an obligation or the law merely
provides consequences for the absence of a signature.
        (5) In determining whether, or to what extent, a
certificate or an encrypted signature is legally effective, no


             [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO I
                                      EL ECTROhrlC TRANSACTIONS

                   regard shall be had to the geographic location-
                        (a) where the certificate is issued or the encrypted
                            signature is created or used; or
                        (b) of the place of business of the certification service
                            provider or signatory.
                           (6) This section shall not affect the operation of any
                   other law that requires-
                        (a) information that is given electronically to contain an
                            encrypted signature (however described);
                        (b) information that is given electronically to contain a
                            unique identification in an electronic form; or
                         (c) a particular method to be used for information that is
                             given electronically to identify the originator and to
                             show that the originator approved the information
                             given.
Requirements          9. Where any law requires a document or signature to be
for attestation,
etc., of           made, attested, acknowledged, authenticated, notarized or
documents.         verified, or to be made under oath, by any person, that require-
                   ment is met if the following are attached to or logically
                   associated with the document-
                         (a) the encrypted signature of that person;
                         (b) in the case of a signature or a document requiring a
                             signature, a statement by that person, attesting to his
                             identity;
                         (c) a statement by that person certifying the performance
                             of all obligations imposed by any other law governing
                             the legal validity of the document; and
                         (d) all other information required to be included under any
                             other law.
Requirements          10.-(1) Where any law requires or permits information to be
to produce a
document for       presented in its original form, or to be made available for
inspection or      inspection, that requirement is met where the information is
in original
form.              produced elecfronically if-


                                 (The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. ll/ZOlO I
                   LLECTRO.4rZC TRANSACTIONS

     (a) having regard to all the relevant circumstances at the
         time, the method of producing the information
         electronically provided a reliable means of assuring
         the maintenance of the integrity of the information;
     (b) when the information was sent, it was reasonable to
         expect that it would be readily accessible so as to be
         useable for subsequent reference;
     (c) where the information is to be produced to the
         Government and the Government requires that-
                (i) an electronic form of the document be pro-
                    duced in a particular way, in accordance
                    with particular information technology
                    requirements; or
               (ii) particular action be talcen to verify receipt of
                    the document,
          the Government's requirement has been met; and
      (4 where the document is to be produced to a person
          other than the Government, that person consents to
          the document being produced electronically.
        (2) For the purposes of subsection (1) (a), the criteria for
assessing integrity are-
      (a) that the information has remained complete and
          unaltered, apart from the addition of any endorsement
          and any change which arises in the normal course of
          communication, storage and display;
      (b) the purpose for which the information is produced;
          and
      (c) any other relevant factor.
   11.-41) Where any law requires a person to keep in- Requirements
                                                                 for keeping
formation (whether or not in its original form, in writing or in info,.,,,ation,
electronic form) for a specified period, that requirement is met
by keeping the information electronically if the following
conditions are satisfied-


              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1112010 1
                                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                      (a) when the information was first generated in electronic
                          form, it was reasonable to expect that the information
                          would be readily accessible so as to be useable for
                          subsequent reference;
                      ( b ) having regard to all the relevant circumstances when
                            the information was first generated in electronic form,
                            the method of retaining the information in electronic
                            form provided a reliable means of assuring the
                            maintenance of the integrity of the information that
                            was so generated;
                      (c) the traffic data relating to the information is also kept
                          in electronic form during the specified period;
                      (d) when the traffic data was first generated iri electronic
                          form, it was reasonable to expect that it would be
                          readily accessible so as to be useable for subsequent
                          reference; and
                      (e) if the law requires the information to be kept in
                          electronic form on a particular kind of data storage
                          medium, that requirement is met throughout the
                          specified period.
                        (2) A person may satisfy the requirement referred to in
                 subsection (1) by using the services of any other person, if the
                 conditions set out in subsection ( l ) ( a )to ( e ) are met.
Ad'nissibi'ity      12.-(1)   In any legal proceedings, nothing in the rules of
and eviden-
        - of
tial weight      evidence shall apply
                                 - - - so as to deny the admissibility in evidence
inf~matiOn       of any information given electronically-
in electronic
form.                 ( a ) solely on the ground that the information is given
                            electronically; or
                      ( b ) if the information is the best evidence that the person
                            adducing it could reasonably be expected to obtain, on
                            the ground that the information is not in its original
                            form.
                        (2) In assessing the evidential weight of information
                 given electronically, regard shall be had to-


                              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. IlROlO I
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

     ( a ) tlze reliability of the manner in which the information
           was generated, stored or communicated;
     (b) the reliability of the manner in which the integrity of
          the information was maintained;
     (c) the manner in which the originator was identified; and
     (6) any other relevant factor.
       (3) This section shall not affect the application of section
31G or 3 1H of the Evidence Act (which relate to the
admissibility of computer generated evidence).
   13.-(1) Where any law requires or refers to serving or Information
delivering information, that information shall be taken to have required  to
                                                                 be served or
been served or delivered, as the case may be, if-                delivered.

      (a) the information is contained in an electronic document
          sent to the person upon whom such service or delivery
          is required to be effected; and
      (b) that person acknowledges the receipt of the in-
          formation.
        (2) Nothing in this section affects any rule relating to
the time for service or delivery of any information.
   14. Where any law prescribes a form, the Minister Electronic
                                                             alternative
responsible may make regulations providing for an electronic to prescribed
form that is substantially the same as the prescribed form, forms.
and the electronic form may be used for the same purposes as
the prescribed form.
  15. Where any law requires that a payment be made to the Electronic
                                                           payment.
Government, the Minister responsible may make regulations-
      (a) for the purpose of authorizing or facilitating the
          making of such payment by electronic means;
      (b) specifying the manner in which such payment may be
          made by electronic means;
      (c) for the purpose of securing the integrity, security and
          confidentiality of such payment by electronic means.


              [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO [
14                                 ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

Formation
and validity
                   16.-(1) In the context of the formation of contracts, unless
ofcontracts.    otherwise agreed by the parties, an offer and the acceptance of
                an offer may be expressed electronically.
                        (2) As between the originator and the addressee of an
                electronic document, a declaration of intention or other state-
                ment or delivery of a deed shall not be denied legal validity or
                enforceability solely on the ground that it is in an electronic
                document.
                        (3) A contract may be formed by the interaction of the
                automated communications device of each party, even if no
                individual was aware of or reviewed the actions of the device or
                the resulting terms and agreements.
                        (4) Subject to subsection (5), a contract may be formed
                by the interaction of an automated communications device and
                an individual, acting on the individual's own behalf or for
                another person, including an interaction in which the individual
                performs actions that the individual-
                      (a) is free to refuse to perform; and
                     (b) Imows or has reason to know will cause the device to
                         complete the transaction.
                        (5) In the circumstances referred to in subsection (4), the
                individual or the person on whose behalf the individual is
                acting, as the case may be, shall not be bound by the terms of
                the contract unless, prior to the formation of the contract, those
                terms were capable of being reviewed by the individual.
                     General provisions relating to electronic transactions
Attribution        17.-(1) An electronic document is sent by a person (A) if-
of electronic
documents.
                      (a) as between A and any other person, the document was
                          sent by A himself; or
                      (b) as between A and the addressee, the document was
                          sent by-
                                (i) another person who has the authority to act
                                    on behalf of A; or


                              (The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. IlROlO 1
                 ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

              (ii) an automated communications device pro-
                   grammed, by or on behalf of A, to operate
                   automatically.
       (2) As between the originator and the addressee, the
addressee is entitled to assume that an electronic document is
being sent by the originator and to act on that assumption if-
     (a) in order to ascertain whether the document is that of
         the originator, the addressee properly applied a
         procedure previously agreed to by the originator for
         that purpose; or
     (b) the document as received by the addressee resulted
         from the actions of a person whose relationship with
         the originator enabled that person to gain access to a
         method used by the originator to identify electronic
         documents as his own.
       (3) Subsection (2) does not apply-
     (a) as of the time when the addressee has-
               (i) received notice from the originator that the
                   electronic document was not sent by the
                   originator; and
              (ii) had reasonable time to act accordingly; or
     (b) in any case falling within subsection (2)(b), at any
         time when the addressee knew, or ought to have
         known had he exercised reasonable care or used any
         agreed procedure, that the electronic document was
         not sent by the originator.
       (4) An addressee is not entitled to regard an electronic
document as being what the originator intended to send if the
addressee knew, or ought reasonably to have known had he
exercised reasonable care or used an agreed procedure, that-
     (a) the document was sent in error; or
     (b) the transmission of the document resulted in an error
         in the document as received by the addressee.


             [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. IlROlO I
16                             ELECTROArIC TRANSACTIONS

Effect of       18.-(1) This section applies where a change or error occurs
change or
error.      in the transmission of an electronic document between parties.
                    (2) Where there is an agreement between the parties to
            use a security procedure to detect changes or errors in the
            electronic document and-
                 (a) only one of the parties has conformed to the pro-
                     cedure; and
                 (b) the non-conforming party would have detected the
                     change or error had that party also conformed, the
                     conforming party may avoid the effect of the changed
                     or erroneous electronic document.
                     (3) A party may avoid the effect of an electronic
            document that results from an error made by the party in dealing
            with the automated communications device of another person, if
            the device did not provide an opportunity for the prevention or
            correction of the error and, at the time the party learns of the
            error, that party-
                 (a) promptly notifies the person of the error and that the
                     party did not intend to be bound by the erroneous
                     document;
                 (b) takes steps that conform to the person's reasonable
                     instructions for the return or disposal of the
                     consideration (if any) received by the party as a result
                     of the erroneous document;
                 ( c ) if no reasonable  instructions are given under para-
                      graph (b), taltes reasonable steps for the return or
                      disposaI of such consideration; and
                 (6) has not received any benefit or value from such
                      consideration.
                   (4) Where neither subsection (2) nor (3) applies, the
            change or error shall have the effect provided for by-
                 (a) any contract between the parties; or
                  (b) law, if there is no such contractual provision.


                          [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. lliZOlO I
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

        ( 5 ) The provisions of subsections (2) and (3) may not be
varied by agreement.
    19.-(1) The provisions of this section apply where, on or Acknowledg-
                                                                ment of
before sending an electronic document, the originator indicates ,ceipr of
to the addressee that receipt of the document must be acknow- electronic
                                                                document.
ledged.
        ( 2 ) Where, on or before sending the electronic document,
the originator indicates to the addressee that the communication
of the document is conditional on the receipt of the
acknowledgment, the document shall be treated, as between the
originator and the addressee, as if the document had never been
sent, until the originator receives the acknowledgment.
        (3) Where there is no agreement between the originator
and the addressee as to the form or method of acknowledg-
ment, the addressee may give the acknowledgment by any
means of communication, electronic, automated or otherwise, or
by any conduct that is reasonably sufficient to indicate to the
originator that the electronic document has been received by the
addressee.
        (4) Subsection (5) applies where the originator has not
indicated, in accordance with subsection (2), that the
communication of the electronic document is conditional upon
the receipt of the acknowledgment, and the acknowledgment has
not been received by the originator within the time specified or
agreed or, if no time has been specified or agreed, within
a reasonable time.
       (5) The originator-
      (a) may give notice to the addressee stating that no
          acknowledgment has been received and specifying a
          reasonable time by which the acknowledgment must
          be received; and
      (b) if the acknowledgment is not received within the time
          specified in paragraph (a), may, upon notice to the
          addressee, treat the document as though it had never


              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. IlnOIO 1
                                ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                        been sent, or exercise any other rights the originator
                        may have.
                     (6) An acknowledgment of receipt given to the originator
              by the addressee shall be taken as prima facie proof that an
              electronic document was received by the addressee, but
              nothing in this subsection shall be construed as implying that
              the electronic document sent corresponds to the electronic
              document received.
                     (7) A statement in an acknowledgment of receipt given
              by the addressee that the related electronic document meets
              technical requirements, either agreed upon between originator
              and addressee or set forth in applicable standards, shall be taken
              as prima facie proof that those requirements have been met.
                      (8) Except in so far as it relates to the sending or receipt
              of the electronic document, this section shall not affect the legal
              consequences that may flow either from that electronic
              document or from the acknowledgment of its receipt.
Time and         20.-(1) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and
place of
dispatchand   the addressee, the dispatch of an electronic document occurs
receipt of    when it enters an electronic communications system outside the
electronic
documents.    control of the originator.
                      (2) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and
              the addressee, the time of receipt of an electronic document is
              determined as follows-
                    (a) where the addressee has designated an electronic
                        communications system for the purpose of receiving
                        electronic documents, receipt occurs-
                              (i) at the time when the document enters the
                                  designated electronic communications sys-
                                  tem;
                              (ii) if the document is sent on an electronic
                                   cornrnunications system of the addressee
                                   that is not the designated electronic com-
                                   munication system, at the time when the


                            [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO I
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS                                       19

                       document comes to the attention of the
                       addressee;
     (b) where the addressee has not designated an electronic
          communications system, receipt occurs when the
          document enters an electronic communications system
          of the addressee or otherwise comes to the attention of
          the addressee.
        (3) Subsection (2) applies notwithstanding that the place
where the electronic communications system is located may be
different from the place where the electronic document is
deemed to be received under subsection (4).
        (4) Unless otherwise agreed between the originator and
the addressee, an electronic document is deemed to be
dispatched at the originator's place of business, and is deemed
to be received at the addressee's place of business.
       ( 5 ) For the purposes of subsection (4)-
     (a) if the originator or the addressee, as the case may be,
         has more than one place of business, the place of
         business is that which has the closest relationship
         to the matter to which the electronic document
         relates;
     (b) if the originator does not have a place of business, the
         electronic document is deemed to be dispatched at the
         place where the originator ordinarily resides;
     (c) if the addressee does not have a place of business, the
         electronic document is deemed to be received at the
         place where the addressee ordinarily resides.
     PART111. Conduct ofparties in relation to electronic
                communications and signatures
  21.---(I) In this Part, "relying party" means a person who Conduct of
                                                              relying party.
may act on the basis of a certificate or encrypted signature.
         (2) A relying party shall bear the legal consequences of
that party's failure-


             [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. l l l Z O l O I
                                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                     (a) to take reasonable steps to verify the reliability of an
                          encrypted signature;
                     (b) where an encrypted signature is supported by a
                          certificate, to take reasonable steps to verify the
                          validity and currency of the certificate and to observe
                          any limitation with respect to the certificate.
Conduct of        22. A signatory who has an encrypted signature creation
signatory.
                device shall-
                     (a) exercise reasonable care to avoid unauthorized use of
                         that device;
                     (b) forthwith notify any person that may reasonably be
                         expected by the signatory to rely on or to provide
                         services in support of, the signature, if the signatory
                         knows-
                                  (i) that the device has been compromised; or
                                 (ii) of circumstances which give rise to a sub-
                                      stantial risk that the device may have been
                                      compromised;
                      (c) where a certificate is used to support an encrypted
                           signature, exercise reasonable care to ensure, through-
                           out the life cycle of the certificate, the accuracy and
                           completeness of all material representations made by
                           the signatory in or in relation to the certificate;
                       (d) indicate, in any document to which he affixes his
                           encrypted signature, whether he does so in a personal
                           capacity or in an official capacity.
Conduct of         23.-(1)     A certification service provider who issues a
certification
service         certificate shall-
provider.
                       (a) act in accordance with representations made by it with
                           respect to its policies and practices;
                       (b) exercise reasonable care to ensure, throughout the life
                            cycle of the certificate, the accuracy and completeness
                            of all material representations made by it in or in
                            relation to the certificate;
                       (c) provide reasonably accessible means for enabling a

                              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO 1
                    ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

          relying party to ascertain from the certificate-
                (i) the identity of the certification service
                     provider;
               (ii) that the signatory identified in the certificate
                     had control of the encrypted signature
                     creation device at the time when the
                     certificate was issued; and
               (iii) that the encrypted signature creation device
                     was valid at the time when the certificate
                     was issued;
      (d) provide reasonably accessible means for enabling a
          relying party to ascertain from the certificate or other-
          wise-
                  (i) the method used to identify the signatory;
                 (ii) every limitation on the purpose or value for
                       which the encrypted signature creation
                       device or the certificate may be used;
                 (iii) whether the encrypted signature creation
                       device is valid and has not been comprised;
                 (iv) every limitation on the scope or extent of
                       liability stipulated by the certification service
                       provider;
                 (v) the facilities provided for the signatory to
                       give notice pursuant to section 22 (b);
                 (vi) the procedures in place to effect revocation;
      ( e ) provide a means for a signatory to give notice pursuant
            to section 22(b);
      Cf) ensure the availability of a timely revocation service;
      (g) utilize trustworthy systems, procedures and human
            resources in performing its services.
         (2) For the purposes of this section, in determining
whether any systems, procedures or human resources utilized by
a certification service provider are trustworthy, regard may be
had to-


               [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO I
                                  ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                   ( a ) the financial and human resources, including the
                         existence of assets and the quality of hardware and
                         software systems of the provider;
                   (b) the provider's procedures for processing certificates
                         and applications for certificates;
                   (c) the provider's retention of records and the availability
                         of information to relying parties and to signatories
                         identified in certificates;
                   (d) the regularity and extent of audits of the provider's
                         operations by an independent body;
                   ( e ) any other relevant factor.
Use and         24.-31) A certification service provider may, at the request
disclosure of
pseudonyms.     of a signatory, indicate, in the relevant certificate, a pseudonym
                instead of the signatory's name.
                          ( 2 ) Where a pseudonym is indicated pursuant to sub-
                section ( I ) , the certification service provider shall disclose the
                name of the signatory if-
                      ( a ) requested to do so by a Constable pursuant to a war-
                             rant issued by a Justice of the Peace or a court; or
                      ( b ) otherwise required to do so by law.
 Liability of      25.-(1) In this section, "intermediary" means a person who
intermediaries.
                sends, receives or stores an electronic document, or provides
                other services in relation to that document, on behalf of another
                person.
                          ( 2 ) An intermediary shall not be held liable in any civil
                or criminal proceedings for any information contained in an
                electronic document in respect of which the intermediary
                provides services, if the intermediary-
                      (a) is not the originator of the document;
                      (b) has no actual knowledge of the act or omission that
                             gives rise to the civil or criminal liability, as the case
                             may be, in respect of the document; and
                    (c) has no knowledge of any facts or circumstances from
                        which the likelihood of such civil or criminal liability
                        ought reasonably to have been known.

                             [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO]
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

       (3) Nothing in this section shall be construed as-
     (a) requiring an intermediary to monitor any information
         contained in an electronic documenr in order to
         establish knowledge of any act, omissions, facts or
         circumstances giving rise to civil or criminal liability
         or imputing knowledge of such liability; or
     (b) relieving an intermediary from complying with any
         law, court order, ministerial direction or contractual
         obligation in respect an electronic document.
       (4) In relation to information contained in an electronic
document in respect of which the intermediary provides
services, if the intermediary has-
     ( a ) actual knowledge of the act or omission that gives rise
           to the civil or criminal liability, as the case may be, in
           respect of the document; or
      (b) laowledge of any facts or circumstances from which
          the likelihood of such civil or criminal liability ought
          reasonably to have been known,
the intermediary shall forthwith remove the document from any
electronic communications system within the intermediary's
control and shall cease to provide services in relation to that
document.
       (5) An intermediary shall not be liable for any act done
in good faith pursuant to the provisions of this section.
 PART IV. Obligations in relation to electronic transactions for
          the supply of goods, services or facilities
   26.-(1) This Part applies only to the formation, by means of                   interpretation
                                                                                  and
electronic transactions, of agreements for the supply of goods,
services or facilities, for sale, hire or exchange, and to the                    ofPartlV.
performance of such agreements.
        (2) This Part applies to any supplier who-
      (a) in Jamaica, offers goods, services or facilities, for
          sale, hire or exchange, to any person in or outside of

              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. l l L 2 O l O I
                 ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

        Jamaica; or
(b) whether in or outside of Jamaica, offers goods, ser-
    vices or facilities, for sale, hire or exchange, to any
    person in Jamaica.
     (3) In this Part-
cc
     commercial communication" means any electronic com-
        munication which constitutes an offer, for sale, hire
        or exchange, of goods, services or facilities;
"consumer" in relation to-
                   (a) any goods, means-
                                (i) any person who acquires or wishes
                                    to acquire goods for his own
                                    private use or consumption; and
                               (ii) a commercial undertaking that
                                    purchases consumer goods;
                  (b) any services or facilities, means any per-
                      son who employs or wishes to be
                      provided with the services or facilities;
                      and
                   (c) any accommodation, means any person
                       who wishes to occupy the accom-
                       modation;
"goods" includes all kinds or property other than real
    property, securities, money or choses in action;
"personal information" means information about an
     identifiable individual, including-
                   (a) information relating to the race, gender,
                       marital status, nationality or ethnicity,
                       colour, sexual orientation, age, physical
                       or mental health, disability, religion,
                       social or political views, language or birth
                       of the individual;


             [The inclusion o f this page is authorued by L.N. I l L t O l O 1
                   ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                    (b) information relating to the education or
                        the medical, criminal, credit or employ-
                        ment history of the individual;
                    (c) information about financial transactions in
                        which the individual is or has been
                         involved;
                    (4 the address, fingerprints or blood type of
                           the individual;
                    ( e ) the name of the individual where it
                          appears with other personal information
                          relating to the individual or where the
                          disclosure of the name itself would reveal
                          personal information about the individual;
                    u> correspondence sent by the individual that
                           is implicitly or explicitly of a private or
                           confidential nature, or further corres-
                           pondence that would reveal the contents
                           of the original correspondence;
                    (g) the views or opinions of any person about
                           the individual;
     "supplier" means a person who offers by means of
         electronic transactions any goods, services or facilities
         for sale, hire or exchange.
   27.-41) A supplier shall, on the website where goods,                    Obligations
                                                                            of supplier
services or facilities are offered for sale, hire or exchange by            in the
the supplier, make available to the consumer the information set            conduct
                                                                            of electronic
out in the Second Schedule.                                                 transactions.
                                                                            Second
        (2) The supplier shall provide the consumer with an                 Schedule.
opportunity to do the following, in the order of their occurrence
herein-
     (a) review the entire electronic transaction;
     (b) correct any errors;
     (c) withdraw from the transaction before finally :lacing

              (The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. llnOlO 1
                                  ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                         an order; and
                     (4 access electronically and reproduce an accurate sum-
                         mary of the order and the terms, including the total
                         cost, relating thereto.
                      (3) Where a supplier fails to comply with subsection (1)
              or (2), the consumer is entitled to cancel the transaction within
              fourteen days after receiving the goods, services or facilities to
              which the transaction applies.
                      (4) Where a transaction is cancelled under subsection
              (31-
                     (a) the consumer shall return the goods and cease using
                         the services or facilities supplied pursuant to the trans-
                         action, as the case may require;
                     (b) the supplier shall refund all payments made by the
                         consumer in respect of the transaction.
                      (5) The supplier shall utilize a payment system that is
              sufficiently secure having regard to-
                     (a) accepted technological standards at the time of the
                         transaction; and
                     (b) the type of transaction concerned.
                      (6) The supplier is liable for any damage suffered by a
              consumer due to a failure by the supplier to comply with sub-
              section ( 5 ) .
cooling-off      28.--(I) Subject to subsections (2) and (4), a consumer is
period.
              entitled to cancel, without giving any reason and without
              incurring any charge or penalty, any transaction or credit
              agreement for the supply of-
                     (a) goods, within seven days after the receipt of the
                          goods; or
                     (b) services or facilities, within seven days after the date
                         on which the agreement is made.
                       (2) This section does not apply to any transaction-

                              [The inclusion o f this page is authorized by L.N. llfZOlO I
                  ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS                                           29

ment because the goods, services or facilities in question are
unavailable, the supplier shall-
      (a) forthwith notify the consumer of the inability; and
      (b) within thirty days after becoming aware of the
          inability, refund any payment made by, or on behalf
          of, the consumer in respect of the goods, services or
          facilities.
   31. No provision in any agreement shall be construed as ~ ; . ~ ~ ~ ~ n s
excluding any rights or obligations provided for in this Part. not excluded
                                                                            by agree-
                                                                            ment.

   32. A consumer who alleges that a supplier has failed to Comp'aints
                                                            to Consumer
comply with any of the provisions of this Part, may make a Affai,
complaint to the Consumer Affairs Commission in accordance COmmi"iOn.
with section 7 of the Consumer Protection Act.
                PART V . The Certlfiing Authority
  33.---(I) For the purposes of this Act there shall be a CertiFying
                                                                Authority.
Certifying Authority, which shall have the functions set out in
subsection (3).
        (2) The Certifying Authority shall be-
      (a) the Trade Board; or
      (b) such other person as the Minister may designate by
           notice published in the Gazette.
        (3) The functions of the Certifying Authority shall be
to-
      (a) issue certificates;
      (b) issue and regulate the use of private and public key
          pairs;
      (c) authorize and regulate the issue of certificates by
          certification service providers;
      (d) authenticate certificates issued by any local or over-
          seas certification service provider;
      (e) provide time stamping services in relation to eIectronic

              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 1 In010 1
                               ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                     documents;
                  V) provide application programming interface, including
                     data encryption, encrypted signatures and digital
                     envelopes;
                  (g) carry out any other duties assigned to it under this or
                      any other enactment.
                     (4) For the purpose of exercising its functions under this
             section, the Certifying Authority may-
                   (a) carry out such investigations as may be necessary;
                  (b) co-operate with any overseas certifying authority in
                      establishing a system of mutual certification.
                  (c) issue, from time to time, certification practice state-
                      ments;
                  (4 with the approval of the Minister, make regulations
                       prescribing-
                              (i) the fees to be imposed for the issue of
                                  certificates, authorizations to certification
                                  service providers and private and public key
                                  pairs;
                             (ii) the manner of application, and the require-
                                  ments, for authorization of certification
                                  service providers;
                            (iii) standards and codes of conduct for inter-
                                  mediaries and certification service providers.
                                   PARTVI. General
Penalties.      34.-(1) A person who contravenes any provision of this Act
             or any regulations made hereunder commits an offence.
                     (2) A person who commits an offence under this Act or
             any regulations .made hereunder, shall be liable upon-
                   (a) conviction before a Resident Magistrate to a fine not
                       exceeding one million dollars or to imprisonment for
                       a term not exceeding one year, or to both such fine
                       and imprisonment; or

                           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llROlO I
                  ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

     (b) conviction before a Circuit Court to a fine or to
         imprisonment for a term of not exceeding five years,
         or to both such fine and imprisonment.
   35. Where a body corporate commits an offence under this offences
Act and the offence is proved to have been committed with the by bodies
consent or connivance of, or to be attributable to any neglect on
the part of, any director, manager, company secretary or other
similar officer of the body corporate, or any person purporting
to act in any such capacity, that officer or person (as the case
may be) as well as the body corporate shall be liable for the
offence.
   36. This Act binds the Crown.                                                      A C b~~ n d s
                                                                                      Crown
   37. The Minister may make regulations generally for giving                         Regulations
effect to the provisions of this Act and, without prejudice to the
generality of the foregoing, may make regulations prescribing-
     (a) methods which satisfy the requirements                            for   an
         encrypted signature under this Act;
     ( b ) requirements for certification;
     (c) the matters to be specified in a certificate;
     (d) procedures for the use, importation or exportation of
          encryption programmes or other encryption devices.
   38. The Minister may by order, subject to affirmative Minstermay
                                                         by order
resolution of the House of Representatives-              amend
                                                                                      penalty or
      (a) increase any monetary penalty of this Act; or                               Schedules.

      (b) amend any of the Schedules.




              [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llnOlO 1
                      ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS


                              FIRSTSCHEDULE                                   (Section 4)

                                                    Extent of exclusion from
    Transaction                                     the provisions ofthis Act
1. The making, execution,                                      Whole Act.
   alteration or revocation of
   a Will or other testamentary
   instrument.
2. The conveyance or transfer                                  Whole Act.
   of real property or any interest
   in real property.
3. The creation, variation, performance                        Whole Act.
   or enforcement of any-
         (a) trust; or
         (b) power of attorney.
4. Any procedure governed by                                   Whole Act.
   the Civil Procedures Rules, 2002,
   or by rules of court made pursuant
   to any law.




                  [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. IlROlO]
                     ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS                                                 3;

                            SECONDSCHEDULE                                    (Section 27)

         Information to be made available by supplier to conszirners
1.    The full name of the supplier.
2.    The supplier's geographical address, website address, e-mail address
      and telephone number.
3.    The geographical address where the supplier will receive service of
      legal documents.
      A disclosure as to whether the entity is incorporated or registered under
      any law and, where applicable, the supplier's registration number and
      place of registration.
      Details as to membership in any self-regulatory or accreditation bodies
      to which the supplier belongs or subscribes, and the contact
      information of such bodies.
      A description of any code of conduct to which the supplier subscribes
      and how that code may be accessed electronically by the consumer.
      A description of the main characteristics of each type of goods, service
      or facility (as the case may be) offered on the website by the supplier,
      which is reasonably sufficient to enable the consumer to make an
      informed decision as to the proposed electronic transaction.
      The full price of the goods, services or facilities, as the case may be,
      including transportation costs, taxes and any other fees or costs.
      The method of payment required by the supplier.
      The terms of agreement, including any guarantees, that will apply to
      the transaction, and how those terms may be accessed, stored and
      reproduced by the consumer electronically.
      The time within which the goods will be dispatched or delivered, the
      services rendered or the facilities made available, as the case may be.
12. The manner and period within which consumers can access and main-
    tain a full record of the transaction.
13. The return, exchange and refund policy of the supplier.
14. Any dispute resolution code to which the supplier subscribes, and how
    the text of that code may be accessed electronically by the consumer.
15.   The security procedures and privacy policy of the supplier in respect of
      payment, payment information and personal information.
16. Where appropriate, the minimum duration of the agreement in the case
    of agreements for goods, services or facilities to be supplied on an


                 [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. llL?OlO]
                     ELECTRONIC TRANSACTIONS

                        SECONDSCHEDULE,
                                     contd.




    ongoing basis or recurrently.
17. Where applicable, the consumer's rights under section 28.




               [The inclusion o f this page is authorued by L.N. l l i 2 O l O I
