                          MONEY LA UNDERING




                     THE MONEY LAUNDERING ACT

                      ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
 1. Short title.
 2. Interpretation.
 3. Money laundering.
 4. Meaning of concealing or disguising.
 5. Conspiring, aiding, abetting, etc.. commission of offence of
      money laundering.
6. Duty of financial institution to report certain transactions.
6A. Exemption from duty to report under section 6.
6B. Duty to report suspicious transaction.
6C. Unauthorized disclosures.
 7. Regulatory controls by financial institutions.
 8. Monitoring orders.
 9. Monitoring orders not to be disclosed.
10. Regulations.




                   [The inclusion of this page Is authorized by L.N. 180A/2006)
                   MONEY LAUNDERING                                                    3




                                                                           Acts
          THE MONEY LAUNDERING ACT                                      30 of 1996,
                                                                        34 of 1997,
                                                                        14 of 1999.
                                                 [5th January, 1998.1

1. This Act may be cited as the Money Laundering Act.                   Short title.

                                                                        Interpreta-
2.-(1) In this Act-                                                     tion.
  "designated authority" means the Director of Public
       Prosecutions or such other person as may be
       designated by the Minister by order;

  "financial institution" means-
         (a) a bank licensed under the Banking Act;
         (b) a financial institution licensed under the Finan-
             cial Institutions Act;
         (c) a building society registered under the Building
             Societies Act;
         (6) a society registered under the Co-operative
             Societies Act;
         (e) an insurance company registered under the
             Insurance Act;
         v) a person licensed under the Bank of Jamaica
            Act to operate an exchange bureau;
         (g) a person licensed under the Securities Act as a
             dealer or investment adviser;
         (h) any other person declared by the Minister, by
             order subject to affirmative resolution, to be a
             financial institution for the purposes of this Act;
   "property" includes money and all other property, real or
       personal, including things in action and other

           [The inclusion of thir pass is authorized by L.N. 3/2WZ]
4                                    MONEY LAUNDERING

                          intangible or incorporeal property;
                   "specified offence" means-
Schedule.                    (a) an offence listed in the Schedule; or
                             ( b ) an act or omission that occurred outside Jamaica
                                   which, had it occurred in Jamaica, would have
                                   constituted such an offence;                            -7
                                                                                           L<



                   "transaction" includes the receiving or making of a gift.
                      (2) The Minister may, by order subject to affirma-
              tive resolution, amend the Schedule.
Money
laundering.
                 3.-(1)   A person shall be taken to engage in money
              laundering if that person-
                    (a) engages in a transaction that involves property that
                        is derived fiom the commission of a specified
                        offence; or
                    (b) acquires, possesses, uses, conceals, disguises, dis-
                        poses of or brings into Jamaica, any such pro-
                        perty; or
                    (c) converts or transfers that property or removes it
                        from Jamaica,
              and the person knows, at the time he engages in the trans
              action referred to in paragraph (a) or at the time he does
              any act referred to in paragraph (b) or (c), that the property
              is derived or realized directly, or indirectly fiom the com-
              mission of a specified offence.
                         (2) A person who, after the 5th of January, 1998
              engages in money laundering is guilty of an offence and
              is liable-
                     (a) on summary conviction before a Resident Magis-
                                                                                           0
                         trate
                              (i) in the case of an individual, to a fine not
                                  exceeding one million dollars or to imprison-
                               [The inclusion of thir page is iuthorizcd by L.N. 3/2002]
                           MONEY LAUNDERING                                 5


                  ment for a term not exceeding five years or
                  to both such fine and imprisonment;

            (ii) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine not
                 exceeding three million dollars;

     (b) on conviction in a Circuit Court-
             (i) in the case of an individual, to a fine or to
                 imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                 twenty years or to both such fine and im-
                 prisonment;

            (ii) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine.
       (3) An attorney-at-law shall not be taken to engage in
money laundering to the extent that he receives bonafide fees
for legal representation of a person charged with an offence
under this section or with a specified offence.

       (4) Nothing in this section shall apply to-
    (a) a bona fide purchaser for value without notice in
         relation to property described in this section; or

    (b) a person who enters into any subsequent transaction
        relating to that property, so, however, that this
        paragraph shall not apply in any case where a person
        enters into &y such subsequent transaction involving
        the use of other property, knowing that the other
        property is derived from the commission of a specified
        offence.

   4. A reference in section 3 (l)(b)to concealing or disguising Meaning of
                                                                  concealing
any property includes a reference to concealing or disguising its or
nature, source, location, disposition, movement or ownership or disguising.
any rights with respect to it.
               [The inclusion of this paBe i s authorized by L.N. 3/2002]
6                                            MONEY LAUNDERING

Conspiring,          5. A person who conspires with another to commit, or aids,
aiding,
abetting, etc.,   abets, counsels, or procures, the commission of, an offence
commission        under section 3, is guilty of an offence and is liable-
of offence of
money                 ( a ) on summary conviction before a Resident Magistrate-
laundering.

                               (i) in the case of an individual, to a fine not
                                   exceeding one million dollars or to imprison-                7
                                   ment for a term not exceeding five years or                  L



                                   to both such fine and imprisonment;
                              (ii) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine
                                   not exceeding three million dollars;
                     ( b ) on conviction in a Circuit Court-
                               (i) in the case of an individual, to a fine or to
                                    imprisonment for a term not exceeding
                                   twenty years or to both such- fine and
                                    imprisonment;
                              (ii) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine.
Duty of              6.-( 1) Subject to the provisions of this Act, it shall be the
financial
institution to    duty of a financial institution to make a report to the designated
report certain    authority, either on its own initiative or in response to a request
transactions.
3411997           made to it by the designated authority, in relation to any cash
S. 2(a).
1411999
                  transaction involving the prescribed amount being carried out by
S. 2(a).          any person with that institution.
I 411999                 (1A) Subsection (1) shall not apply to transactions
S. 2(b).
                  carried out by-
                      (a) a ministry, department or agency of government;
                      (b) a statutory body or authority;
                      (c) a company registered under the Companies Act, in
                          which the Government or an agency of the                              0
                          Government, whether by the holding of shares or by
                          other financial input, is in a position to influence the
                          policy of the company;

                                    [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 3/2002]
                            MONEY LAUNDERING                                        7


      (4 any Embassy, High Commission, consular office or
          organization to which the Diplomatic Immunities and
          Privileges Act applies; or

      (e) any organization in relation to which an order is made
          under section 3(2) of the Technical Assistance
           (Immunities and Privileges) Act.
       (2) A financial institution which makes a report
under subsection (1) to the designated authority shall not
disclose the existence of that report to any other person.

       (3) Where a financial institution makes a report in
accordance with subsection (I), that institution, its directors
and employees shall be exempt from-

     (a) any liability to prosecution for an offence under
          section 3 or 5 ;
     (b) any criminal, civil or administrative liability, as
         the case may be, for breach of any restriction on
         disclosure of information imposed by contract or
         by any legislative, regulatory or administrative
         provision,

regardless of the outcome of the report.

         (4) In making a report under subsection (1) a financial
institution shall comply with such directions as may be given by
the designated authority.

       ( 5 ) A financial institution which fails to comply with
subsection (l), (2) or (4) is guilty of an offence and liable on
summary conviction in a Resident Magistrate’s Court to a fine
not exceeding four hundred thousand dollars.
                                                                          3411991
       (6) In subsection (1)-                                             S.2(b).

              [The inclusion of this pa8e is authorized by L.N. 3/2002]
8                                             MONEY LAUNDERING

                     “cash transaction” means a transaction involving the
                        physical transfer of currency from one person to
                        another;
1411999              “prescribed amount” means-
s. 2(c).
                          (a) in relation to a person licensed under the Bank
                                of Jamaica Act to operate an exchange bureau,
                                eight thousand dollars or more in the currency
                                of the United States of America or an                       7
                                                                                            -1

                                equivalent amount in Jamaican currency or any
                                other currency;
                          (b) in relation to any other financial institution, fifty
                              thousand dollars or more in the currency of the
                              United States of America or an equivalent
                              amount in Jamaican currency or any other
                              currency.
3411997
s. 2(c).
                           (7) For the purposes of the definition of “cash
                 transaction” and “the prescribed amount” in subsection (6),
                 “currency” refers to the coin and paper money designated as the
                 legal tender of Jamaica, the United States of America or any
                 other foreign country which circulates as and is customarily
                used and accepted as a medium of exchange in the country of
                issue.
Exemption           6A.-(1) A financial institution may apply in writing to the
from duty
to report under Minister responsible for finance or a person designated in
section6,       writing by that Minister for exemption from the require-
1411999
s.3.            ments of section 6 (1) in relation to a transaction or series of
                transactions carried out or to be carried out by a person who is
                an established customer of that institution.
                         (2) The Minister responsible for finance may grant an
                exemption in relation to a transaction or series of transactions
                specified in an application under subsection (1) if the Minister is
                                                                                            0
                satisfied that the exemption should be granted, having regard to
                the matters specified in subsection (3).
                   (3) The matters referred to in subsection (2) are as
            follows-
                            [The inclusion o f this page IS authorized by L . N   3/2002]
                                    MONEY LAUNDERING                          8.0 1


         (a) the transaction or series of transactions consists of a
             deposit into or a withdrawal from an account
             maintained by that customer with the financial
             institution;
         (6) the customer carries on-
                (i) a retail business (other than a business that
f
                     includes the selling of vehicles, vessels, farm
4
                     machinery or aircraft);
                (ii) a business declared by the Minister by order to
                     be an entertainment business or a hospitality
                     business for the purposes of this Act.

        (c) the account through which the transaction or series of
            transactions is conducted is maintained for the
            purposes of any such business; and
        (d) the amount of cash involved in the transaction or series
             of transactions does not exceed an amount that is
             reasonably commensurate with the lawful business
             activities of the customer.
           (4) In subsection (I) “established customer”, in relation
    to an application for exemption, means a person who has been a
    customer of the financial institution for not less than a period of
    twelve months immediately preceding the date of the
    application.
       6B.-(1) A financial institution shall, in relation to each f u s -
    customer, pay special attention to all complex, unusual or large picious
    business transactions, or unusual patterns of transactions
    whether completed or not, which appear to the financial s.3.
    institution to be inconsistent with the normal transactions
    carried out by that customer with the institution.
            (2) Upon reasonable suspicion that the transactions
    described in subsection (1) could constitute or be related to
    money laundering, a financial institution shall promptly report
    the transactions to the designated authority.

                   [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N 3/2002]
8.02                                 MONEY LAUNDERING

                       (3) A person who fails to comply with subsection (2) is
               guilty of an offence and liable on summary conviction in a Resi-
               dent Magistrate's Court to a fine not exceeding one million
               dollars or to imprisonment or a term not exceeding twelve
               months.
                       (4) In proceedings against a person for an offence under
               this section, it is a defence for the person charged that he had a
               reasonable excuse for not making the report required under                 7
                                                                                          L-
               subsection (2).
                       ( 5 ) Where a member of staff of a financial institution
               other than an officer referred to in section 7 (3), is charged with
               an offence under this section, it is a defence for that member of
               staff that he disclosed the information or other matter in
               question to that officer in accordance with the procedures
               established pursuant to section 7.
                       (6) Where a report is made in accordance with
               subsection (2), the financial institution concerned, its directors
               and employees shall be exempt from-
                   (a) any liability to prosecution for an offence under section
                      3 or 5;
                  (b) any criminal, civil or administrative liability, as the
                      case may be, for breach of any restriction on disclosure
                      of information imposed by contract or by any
                      legislative, regulatory or administrative provision,
               regardless of the outcome of the report.
disclosures.
                  6C.-(1)     A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing or
14/1999        suspecting that a designated authority is acting or is proposing
s. 3.          to act , in connection with an investigation which is being, or is
               about to be conducted in relation to money laundering, he
               discloses information or any other matter, relating to the
               investigation, to any other person, except-
                    (a) an attorney-at-law for the purpose of obtaining legal
                                                                                          0
                         advice; or
                   (b) for the purpose of facilitating the investigation or any
                         proceedings which might be conducted following the
                         investigation.
                              [The inclusion of this page ir authorized by L.N. 3/2002]
                           MONEY LA WDERING                                          8.03

              (2) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing or
    suspecting that a report has been made to the designated
    authority under section 6B(2), he discloses information or any
    matter, relating to the report, to any other person, except-
           (a) an attorney-at-law for the purpose of obtaining legal
                 advice; or
           (b) for the purpose of facilitating any investigation or
                 proceedings which might be conducted following that
                 report.
              (3) A person is guilty of an offence if, knowing or
    suspecting that a disclosure referred to in section 6B(5) has
    been made, he discloses information or any other matter,
    relating to that disclosure, to any other person, except -
           (a) an attorney-at-law for the purpose of obtaining legal
                 advice; or
           (6) for the purpose of facilitating any investigation or
                 proceedings which might be conducted following that
                 disclosure.
              (4) Nothing in subsections (1) to (3) makes it an offence
    for an attorney-at-law to disclose information or any other
    matters to-
          (a) a person who is, or a representative of, a client of that
                 attorney-at-law, in connection with the giving of legal
                 advice to &at client; or
          (b) any other person, in contemplation of or in connection
                with, legal proceedings and for the purpose of those
                proceedings.
              ( 5 ) A person convicted of an offence under subsection
    (l), (2) or (3) is liable to a fine not exceeding two million dollars
    or to imprisonment for a term not exceeding two years or to
    both such fine and imprisonment.
0       7.-( 1) A financial institution shall establish and implement
    such programmes, policies, procedures and controls as may be financialin-
                                                                              %
                                                                              ;! ;
    necessary for the purpose of preventing or detecting money stimtion*.
    laundering.
              (2) Without prejudice to the generality of subsection
    (l),the programmes referred to in that subsection shall include-
                  [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 3/2002]
8.04                                    MONEY LAUNDERING


                  (a) the establishment of procedures to ensure high
                       standards of integrity of employees;
                   (b) the development of a system to evaluate the
                       personal employment and financial history of
                       those employees;
                   (c) the establishment of programmes for training of                 -7
                       employees on a continuing basis and for instruct-
                        ing employees as to their responsibilities in respect
                        of the provisions of this Act;
                  (d) arrangements for an independent audit in order to
                       ensure that the programmes as aforesaid are being
                        implemented.
                    (3) For the purposes of this section, a financial insti-
             tution shall designate an officer of the institution who
             performs management functions to be responsible for ensur-
             ing the implementation of the programmes, policies, pro-
             cedures and controls referred to in subsection (I), including
1411999      the reporting of transactions referred to in sections 6 and 6B.
s. 4.
                    (4) A financial institution shall consult with the com-
             petent authority for the purpose of carrying out its obligations
             under this section.
                     ( 5 ) In this section ''competent authority" means the
             Minister or such other person as he may specify in writing
             for the purpose of this section.

                    ( 6 ) A financial institution which fails to comply with
             subsection (1) or (3) is guilty of an offence and liable on
             summary conviction before a Resident Magistrate to a fine
             not exceeding four hundred thousand dollars.                              0
Monitoring      8.-(1) The Director of Public Prosecutions may apply
orders.      to a Judge in Chambers in accordance with subsection (3)
             for an order (in this section referred to as a "monitoring
             order") directing a financial institution to give to a constable
                           [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 3/ZOOZ]
                   MONEY LAUNDERING                                9

named by the Director of Public Prosecutions in the applica-
tion, information and such documents as the Director of
Public Prosecutions may specify in the application, other
than items subject to legal privilege.
      (2) The constable referred to in subsection (1) shall
be a constable designated in writing by the Commissioner
of Police.
      (3) An application under subsection (1) shall be made
ex purte and shall be in writing and be accompanied by an
affidavit.
       (4) A monitoring order shall direct a financial insti-
tution to disclose information or to produce documents, or
both, obtained by or under the control of the institution
about transactions conducted through an account held by a
particular person with the institution.
      (5) A monitoring order shall apply in relation to
transactions conducted during the period specified in the
order, being a period commencing not earlier than the day
on which notice of the order is given to the financial institu-
tion and ending not later than three months after the date
of the order.
       (6) A Judge shall not make a monitoring order unless
he is satisfied that there are reasonable grounds for suspect-
ing that the person in respect of whose account the informa-
tion is or documents are sought-
     (a) has committed or is about to commit an offence
           under section 3 or 5;
      (b) was involved in the commission, or is about to be
           involved in the commission of, such an offence; or
      (c) has benefited directly or indirectly, or is about to
           benefit directly or indirectly, from the commissim
           of that. offence.
__---                       _ _ ___.-               I_



             inClusionod this page is authorized by U.
                                                      --



                                                      146/ 19991
10                                 MONEY LAUNDERING

                    (7) A monitoring order shall specify-
                  (a) the name or names in which the account is believed
                       to be held;
                  (6) the class of information and a description of any
                       documents that the institution is required to give;
                       and
                  (c) the name of the constable to whom the information
                       is or documents are to be given and the manner
                       in which it is or they are to be given.
                    (8) A financial institution that is notified of a
             monitoring order and knowingly-
                  (a) contravenes the order; or
                  (b) provides false or misleading information or docu-
                       ments in purported compliance with the order,
             is guilty of an offence and is liable on sumsnary conviction
             in a Resident Magistrate’s Court to a fine not exceeding
             one million dollars.
                    (9) A reference in this section to a transaction con-
             ducted through an account includes a reference to-
                   (a) the making of a fixed term deposit;
                  (b) in relation to a fixed term deposit, the transfer of
                        the amount deposited or any part thereof at the
                        end of the term; and
                   (c) the opening, existence or use of a deposit box
                       held by the institution.
                    (10) Nothing in section 3 shall apply to a financial
             institution that is subject to a monitoring order in SO far as
             that institution continues to conduct business with the per-
             son to whom the order relates.

Monitoring     9.-(1) A financial institution that is, or has been, subject
orders not
tokdis-      to a monitoring order shall not disclose the existence or
closed.      the operation of the order to any person except-
                                  __--
                      p h e inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 146/1999]
                      MONEY LAUNDERING                                    11

    (a) an officer or agent of the institution, for the purpose
        of ensuring that the order is complied with;
    (b) an attorney-at-law, for the purpose of obtaining
        legal advice or representation in relation to the
        order.
       (2) A person referred to in subsection (1) (a) or (b)
to whom disclosure of the existence or operation of a
monitoring order has been made and a constable referred
to in section 8 (1) shall not-
     (a) disclose the existence or operation of the order
          except to another person referred to in that sub-
          section for the purposes of-
                 the performance of that person’s duties, if
                 the disclosure is made by the constable
                 referred to in section 8 (1);
                 ensuring that the order is complied with or
                  obtaining the legal advice or representation
                 in relation to the order, if the disclosure is
                  made by an officer or agent of the institu-
                  tion; or
                 giving legal advice or making representa-
                  tions in relation to the order, if the dis-
                 closure is made by an attorney-at-law; or
                a record of or disclose the existence or the
          operation of the order in any circumstances even
          when he ceases to be a person referred to in sub-
          section (l),
      (3) Nothing in subsection (2) prevents the disclosure
by a person referred to in subsection (1) (b) of the existence
or operation of a monitoring order-
     (a) for the purposes of, or in connection with, legal
         proceedings; or
     (b) in the course of proceedings before a court.
          [The inclusion of this page is authorized by L.N. 3/2001]
                                                                      -



RL--40
12                                 MONEY LAUNDERING

                 (4) A person referred to in subsection (1) (b) shall
           not be required to disclose to any court the existence or
           operation of a monitoring order.
                    (5) A person who contravenes subsection (1) or (2)
            is guilty of an offence and is liable on summary conviction
            in a Resident Magistrate's Court-
                 (a) in the case of an individual, to a fine not exceeding
                       two hundred thousand dollars or to imprisonment
                       for a term not exceeding three years or to both
                       such fine and imprisonment;
                 (b) in the case of a body corporate, to a fine not
                       exceeding six hundred thousand dollars.
                   (6)A reference in this section to disclosing the
            existence or operation of a monitoring order to a person
            includes a reference to disclosing information to the person
            from which that person could reasonably be expected to
            infer the existence or operation of the monitoring order.

RSg0l.-       10. The Minister may make regulations generally for
tbnR
            giving effect to the provisions and purposes of this Act.

                                            SCHEDULE                           (Section 2)
                                        Specified Offences
              1. The pduODi<m, mufadun%extraction, Praparatisn, disbribution,
           sale, & l h y      my kTIll6 W h @ m . b k a e . dbptch (bdudhg
L.N.       dispatch in t  m& ) trampat, importation or exporWion of or t a b g
1671/1999. steips prepwat~'to the -  xe           d,or athsr d&g in any nclsootic
           drug or any psychotropic substmcz mnlmy to the pmv%bns of the
           Dangerom Drugs Act.
              2. The c u l t h t h ob o p i ~polrw, axa bush or cannabis p h t
           0anitm-y to the provisions of the Dangerous Drugs Ad.
              3. The possession or putchase of any narwtic drug or psychotropic
           substance for the purpose of any of the activities referred to in
           paragraph 1.
L.N.          4. The m t i m , ianpcmhtion or elcportaition of firearns in con-
1671/1999. travention of the p&         of the F-       Act.
                      [The inclusion of this page is autthorized by L.N. 3/2001]
                      MONEY LAUNDERING                                             13

                            SCHEDULE,
                                   contd.
  5 . Any offence involving fraud, dishonesty or corruption.                L.N.
   6. The organization, management or financing of any of the offences 167111999.
specified in paragraph 1.2 or 3.
  7. Publicly inciting or inducing others, by a n y means, to m m i t
any of the other offences referred to in this Schedule or to use narcotic
drugs or psychotropic substances contrary to the Dangerous Drugs Act.
   8. Conspimy to commit, ahhnpts to commit and aiding, abetting,
procuring or counselling the commission of any of the other offences
listed in this Schedule.




          [The inclusion of this page is aathorized by L.N.3/2001]
